---
title: unknown 1
published: false
---

>Society stinks, money is all that matters, science fell by the wayside and greed has left kindness in tatters. Sentiment spread thinly across the surface of the earth, only a handful with a grasp on what life's really worth.
>
>Those with the hold on common sense will never flee, too much to lose, i'm pretty sure that the plague of our time is stupidity.
>
>Revolution is too bloody, men are easily corrupt, and swallowed by a penchant for violence and mistrust.
>
>I still hold out hope for our people at large, but all of this is hard to watch, it's a horrible mirage.
>
>Religious acts of violence, what god would allow this? We're made for more than killing each other, why can't we realise it?

One day i hope we'll make it, to the stars, and see that we are so fucking small that all our interspecies, religious, personal and jealous bullshit is immediately disregarded. Nothing short of a miracle, or perhaps, a disaster, is going to pull us together.

Worse, i fear that it will never happen, and this scares me beyond measure, because as creatures, without all our technology and education, all we have is each other, hope is the constant, faith and trust are the variables, and the equation that is mankind may never resolve and balance itself.

If that's the case, so be it, we'll fade into the night like so many civilizations before us, but maybe, one day, those who follow us will learn from our mistakes enough to not repeat the terrible history we have amassed behind us, learned that it divided us and that this was our downfall.

Time marches on, as does life. I will be gone one day, but my existence will remain, and i will endeavour to make sure that i live on, even in the smallest form, imprinted on the memories of those to follow me, my friends, my family, my children. I am one man, a single rock cannot divert a river, all i can do now, is hope.
