---
title: High anxiety
description: I shed some light on the symptoms i experience during an anxiety attack.
layout: post
---
I've been trying for a long time to put how it feels to live with anxiety disorder into words, mainly for myself, but also to help further some understanding of the effects it actually has on my life.

From what i understand, everyone's problems and symptoms differ, and my experiences are in no way representative of this condition, but i think it's useful to note what it can do to people, especially since very few people know there's even anything 'wrong' with me.

### This post *is* the example.

NB: The things i mention below aren't just limited to tonight, they're symptoms i've been having for somewhere around 8-9 years now.

It's currently almost 3am, i woke up about 1.30 feeling a little dizzy, i got up, and i drank some water, and tried to get back to sleep, but the dizziness escalated into a type of anxiety attack that i've suffered from many times before, where i find that any attempt to fall asleep results in being jarred awake by overwhelming dizziness.

There's also a constant 'buzz' in my head, a feeling somewhere between feeling like i'm going to faint, and like i'm going to have an epileptic fit, and the concern that something is actually *seriously* is always in the back of your mind - part of the cycle of worry that gives attacks like these real staying power.

This constant 'buzz' (and i use that word in a negative context) is visual too - things can seem unreal, dream-like, and fuzzy, that's how i feel now, it slows down your ability to concentrate, and used to be one of the more scary parts of these attacks. Genuinely freaking me into feeling like i was either dreaming, or about to pass out.

Other physical effects come into play too - my stomach is going crazy making noises, and i get chest pain under my collarbone, a dull ache. The chest pains used to really scare me when i first started with these problems (i was 15) - along with the palpatations and heart 'flutters' i would experience, i genuinely thought that i was going to have a heart attack at any moment.

### Breathe

Breathing is worth a special mention here, simply because one of the most horrifying things about anxiety attacks is suddenly becoming aware of your breathing patterns, and the lack of the ability to effectively: a) Control it, and b) Forget about it and let the automatic instinct take over again.

It's worst when trying to sleep, you end up taking very shallow breaths, and not noticing, then suddenly feeling like you haven't taken in enough oxygen.


### No prevention, no cure.

These attacks are depressing mostly because they can't be prevented, and once they start, they usually last about an hour, consisting of *waves* of panic where the symptoms will worsen and then ease.

Once an attack has set in, the only real method of soothing it is distraction - i've put the TV on, and obviously cracked open my laptop to give myself something to think about other than what i'm feeling.

Sometimes eating helps - i'm not sure if it's the sugar or just the general notion of 'comfort eating', but it does definitely take the edge off, most of the time. Of course, eating a bowl of cereal at 3am is rather unhealthy by itself, but when you combine it with other times i've eaten to ease anxiety, you can definitely see why i don't look like an athlete.

The worst part is knowing they'll pass in an hour or so, but not being able to expediate the process. I've learned to accept that fact, but it's still depressing.

I am seeing someone about anxiety stuff, and it is helping, but progress with issues like these is notably slow.

### Consequences

The biggest consequence is of course, losing sleep. Our 9-5 work week is something of a bummer when it comes to not getting enough sleep at the start of the week, it doesn't just affect the day after (where you're tired, depressed, slow and poorly-focused), but it affects your ability to do things after work too, because all you want to do is go home and sleep.

I've written before about how i'm terrible with a 9-5 work week, and this is the **main** reason why.

Anyway, if you've read this - thank you, i hope it sheds some light on some of the things that i and other anxiety disorder suffers have to live with.
